# **Analysis of CO2 Emissions from Air Transport around the world**
### Code Name: Airtransportation-CO2
### INFO-201: Technical Foundations of Informatics - The Information School - University of Washington
### Autumn 2022
---
### Authors: Mustafa Khan (mmk49@uw.edu), Xiaoyu Zhang (xiaoyz37@uw.edu), Antong Yan (ayan16@uw.edu), Rachel Joshua (rmjoshua@uw.edu)

#### Abstract:
In this project, our main concern is to investigate the CO2 emissions generated by aviation industry in all countries around the world and explore the relationship between air transportation and CO2 emissions. Why is it so important to learn about the amount of CO2 emitted by airlines around the world and to understand the relationship between air transportation and CO2 emissions? Because airplanes are frequently chosen by humans as one of the most convenient means of transportation in modern times. However, they are also large vehicles that pollute the environment by releasing large amounts of carbon dioxide gas every time they are activated. Therefore, considering the environment we live in and its air quality, it is necessary to go through the data to understand the real impact of this mode of transportation on the environment. To address our concern, we will conduct a data collection to try to find a dataset of the number of flights, including both domestic and international, around the world and their CO2 emissions over the last ten years, and will also search for CO2 emissions generated by all types of transport in all countries over the last ten years.
#### Keywords:
CO2 emissions, air transportation, flights, global issues, worldwide pandemic.

#### Introduction:
In today's society, many countries are facing serious air pollution, and the amount of carbon dioxide released by transportation is definitely one of the key factors contributing to the pollution. The hidden problem of airplanes, the most convenient and versatile means of transportation in modern times, may be the excessive CO2 emissions. Therefore, in this project, we want to investigate whether the number of aircraft flights regulated by a country's aviation industry determines the amount of CO2 emissions in that country, in other words, whether the number of flights is proportional to its CO2 emissions. By studying the CO2 emissions of air transportation, one of the most common means of transportation in the world, in recent years, we can understand the contribution of this means of transportation to the total amount of CO2 emissions in the world, and therefore determine whether air transportation is the main means of transportation that contributes to air pollution. 

#### <ins>Problem domain</ins>
&nbsp;
**Project Background & Framing:** 
Based on a serious problem that the world is currently facing, namely the worldwide air pollution that we mentioned in the previous section. This pollution comes from multiple sources, such as volcanic eruptions and plant decay, which are natural resources. However, the main cause of pollution, as how it describes in the article [Air Pollution and Your Health](https://www.niehs.nih.gov/health/topics/agents/air-pollution/index.cfm#:~:text=Vehicle%20emissions%2C%20fuel%20oils%20and,of%20human%2Dmade%20air%20pollution.), seems to be more in favor of human sources, namely the carbon dioxide that is released into the air after the [burning of oil, coal and natural gas](https://www.nrdc.org/stories/fossil-fuels-dirty-facts#:~:text=Fossil%20fuels%20produce%20large%20quantities,quarters%20of%20our%20carbon%20emissions.). In today's society, the combustion of these energy sources occurs mainly in the operation of factories and various means of transportation. We believe that people have learned a lot in recent years about the environmental impact of CO2 emissions from cars through online news and TV reports, but in this project we will focus on the [airplane emissions](https://www.biologicaldiversity.org/programs/climate_law_institute/transportation_and_global_warming/airplane_emissions/index.html), one of the largest transportation in the world. 
Therefore，our fundamental goal in this project is to investigate the CO2 emissions of air transportation (airplane) around the world, and the impact and contribution of such transportation to total world emissions. 


<ins>**Stakeholders**</ins>

**Direct Stakeholders:**
- National Governments: The first direct stakeholder will be the governments of countries with high CO2 emissions from aircraft. By subsequently calculating the total number of flights per year in each country of the world and the total amount of CO2 produced by aircraft per year in each country, everyone will be able to know which countries have higher values in both areas. With these results, governments will be aware that the volume of air traffic in their countries contributes to higher CO2 emissions, so that they can discuss the air pollution problems in their countries and propose and implement solutions for environmental improvements. There are many harmful effects of air pollution for the country, such as poor air quality, health level of citizens, etc. Therefore, the results of this project will make the government aware of the crisis caused by air pollution in the country and improve the environment as soon as possible to stabilize the overall situation in the country.
- Citizens: The second direct stakeholder is the citizens of the country. For the citizens of the countries where the number of flights recorded is low, they will be happy to see the results of the study, because the low number of flights means that the aircraft emit less CO2 and they may live in a country with better air quality. However, for citizens of countries with high flight numbers, they will be concerned about the quality of their environment and their future health after knowing the results, based on the fact that their country has more CO2 emissions from aircraft. Although the CO2 emissions from aircraft are not representative of a country's total CO2 emissions, they are to some extent representative of the country's index in terms of overall transportation.


**Indirect Stakeholders:**
- National Airlines: the first indirect stakeholder is the airlines of the countries that have a large number of flights. These airlines may be subject to criticism and restrictions compared to the national governments that will benefit from the results of the project. First, due to the high number of flights, airlines may be subject to dissatisfaction from the NEPA. This is because a high number of flights equates to a high number of takeoffs and landings, resulting in high levels of CO2 emissions. Secondly, because of the high level of air pollution caused by high CO2 emissions from aircraft, the state may restrict the number of flights of airlines to improve air quality, which may cause them some degree of economic loss.
- Airline passengers: the second indriect stakeholder is passengers who have a high demand for airline flights, including, for example, workers who need to travel a lot and people who like to travel. If countries modify the number of flights at a later stage because of the level of CO2 emissions from aircraft, it would inconvenience these groups. 

**Human Values:** 
Drawing on the Value Sensitive Design literature's use of the term "what a person or group of people consider important in life," we find that two values of interest are emphasized in this project, which are 'environmental sustainability' and 'community'.
First, with regard to environmental sustainability, sustainability in this context refers to the goal of people to be able to live safely on the planet in the long term. The research for this project is centered around the central theme of carbon dioxide emissions, with the explicit goal of exploring the level of emissions produced by aircraft around the world, and the implicit goal of showing the audience the negative impact of carbon dioxide on the planet's environment. By doing so, we warn people that their survival and safety may be affected by air pollution in the long term, and that taking action to improve air pollution is a primary requirement for achieving environmental sustainability. 
Secondly, regarding community, the scope of this project is worldwide, the database cited will include countries from all over the world, and the results will be divided by country. In addition, since the results of the project will show a portion of the country's co2 emissions, it will inspire citizens of each country to organize into a community that shares the same beliefs about air pollution, that is, to work towards improving the country's air quality.

<ins>**Potential Benefits and Harms:**</ins>

**Benefits:** With the results of our study, people can get answers to many questions about CO2 and transportation, such as which countries' flights are more friendly to CO2 release, which countries' flights are mainly responsible for CO2 release, and whether the CO2 produced by airplanes can represent the total CO2 emissions in that country. The results of these questions have important implications for governments and airlines to adjust local airport policies and protect the environment.

**Harms:** Since the data we use is composed of several different datasets, it is possible that a small error in one of the datasets or a mismatch with some data from other datasets could lead to small deviations in the final project's data and visualization data results, resulting in less than fully accurate results. If this does happen, the project will be unfair to the countries analyzed, as some innocent countries may be unduly criticized by society and other countries for our findings.

#### Research questions
&nbsp;
<ins>**What countries produce the lowest/highest air transportation CO2 emissions?**</ins>
The reason this question is important is that it exposes the global distribution of CO2 emissions. Once we know the distribution of CO2 emissions, we know where to improve the policies and technologies to reduce the CO2 emissions, so this is very important to local governments.


<ins>**How did Covid-19 play a role in air transportation CO2 emissions?**</ins>
The whole point of this research is to see how Covid-19 influences the number of flights all over the world, and how Covid-19 changes the amount of CO2 emissions. With these two variables, we can speculate how much air transportation influences CO2 emissions. In another word, how directly does air transportation affect global emissions? Thus the government would make better policies to improve CO2 releases because it would probably make more policies about air transportation than other causes.  


<ins>**Does the number of domestic and international flights of a country determine the level of its total CO2 emission (by any object that may produce CO2)?”**</ins>
The point that inspired us to ask this question was that, having studied the relationship between the number of flights and CO2 emissions, we wanted to look at the broader context of whether the CO2 emissions from airplanes as one type of transportation in the world could reflect the total CO2 emissions in different countries. The importance of this question is reflected by the fact that airplanes are representative of all modes of transportation. Assuming that the study, which compares the emissions of airplanes and all modes of transportation in each country, reveals similar trends of increase and decrease between countries, the audience can directly know the total emissions of a country by understanding the contribution of airplanes to the CO2 emissions of each country level in the world.


#### The dataset
Three datasets from online researching will be used in this project. In general, the three datasets contain much of the basic information needed for this study, including but not limited to: the flights recorded in all countries of the world in recent years (domestic and international), the CO2 emissions corresponding to each flight (unit: CO2-e), the total CO2 emissions of each country (unit: MtCO2e), including all modes of transportation here, and the passenger volume of all recorded flights.  By summarizing and calculating these data, we were able to obtain clear results for the three research questions of interest in this project, as well as to determine whether the content regarding the direct and indirect stakeholders we analyzed in the previous section is correct.

Finally, regarding to the provenance of our three datasets:
1. The first dataset named “Air Transport CO2 Emissions,” and is published on the OECD Statistics. The source of the data in the dataset is complied by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). This database was last updated on Oct 12, 2022 and the purpose of the dataset is to estimate the global CO2 emissions produced by air transport in each country from 2014 to 2018. Based on the information provided on the OECD website, we have not found a funding provider for this dataset, but the ICAO data source is Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast(ADS-B)system from 2019 onwards. And for the years prior to 2019, the estimates of CO2 are based on scheduled flight information, therefore, people who will benefit from the data would be ICAO and ADS-B system. Overall, we think this dataset is credible and trustworthy, since ICAO as the data compiler is an official national organization and ADS-B comes from the official U.S. Department of Transportation. Finally, we obtained this dataset by searching the keyword “Air transportation CO2 emissions” online and we did credited its source in our data. 
2. The second dataset named “TSA checkpoint travel numbers (current year versus prior year(s)/same weekday) is published by transportation security administration, which is an official website of the United States government. This dataset records daily travel numbers, that is, the number of passengers who traveled by air transportation, within the United States during the pandemic. The data has been recorded since the first day of the pandemic, December 4, 2021, and is still being updated daily on the website today. The National Transportation Safety Administration's purpose in providing this data is to provide insight into changes and trends in air travel during the epidemic and to raise questions about how the epidemic is affecting travel numbers. We think the source of funding for the data collection effort may be the U.S. government but are not certain, and then speculate that the party that will receive money from the dataset may be the Transportation Security Administration, as it is responsible for the release of the dataset and subsequent updates to the data. Regarding to the authority of this dataset, we think it is fully guaranteed. It is published and updated by the official state website, which is enough to prove that the data is trustworthy. Finally, we obtained this dataset by searching the keyword “airplane passenger during pandemic” online and we did credit the source of the data.
3. The third dataset named “Carbon Dioxide Emissions of the World (1990-2018)” compiled by Annan Hore, who is a data analyst from India, and the provenance of the dataset is Climate Watch Data. The dataset was being updated 8 months ago and its purpose is to estimate the CO2 emissions generated by all kinds of objects in the world for all the countries around the world. We think the source of funding for the data collection effort may be the Kaggle website based on the dataset is only visible in this site, and the party that likely to make money from the data may be Hore and Kaggle website. The dataset is credible and trustworthy, because the data within the dataset is gathered from the Climate Watch Data portal using CAIT data source, and through our further research, we found that the full name of CAIT is Climate Analysis Indicators Tool, which is a data analysis tool on global climate change developed by the World Resources Institute. Therefore, the authority of this dataset can be guaranteed. The way we obtained this data was through the Kaggle website, which is a well-known data science company. We entered the keyword “world CO2 emissions” into Kaggle’s search bar, then the website suggested us this dataset. 

#### Expected implications


#### Limitations
1. Inaccuracy of data in graph: regarding our second dataset “TSA checkpoint travel numbers (current year versus prior year(s)/same weekday,” because its data is continuously undated daily, the data for  total air transportation ridership calculated in our project for 2022 only ranges from January 1 to the date before we calculated the data, excluding new data updated after that. This results in inaccurate values in the graphs of 2022 air transportation volumes shown in the project, as these values do not include data for each day of the entire year of 2022, and it is difficult for us to count and modify our data and graphs in real time.
2.  Limitations of the range presented in the graph: before presenting the final graphs of the project, we first designed charts to answer and illustrate the research questions. Two of them were designed as bar charts to show the number of flights in each country of the world and the CO2 emissions generated by aircraft in each country compared to the total national CO2 emissions (by any object that could generate CO2). However, due to missing data for some countries in one of the datasets and the difficulty of presenting all 195 countries in the world in one chart, only the 28 countries with the highest number of flights in rank order are shown in the chart. This resulted in one of the final graphs presented in the project lacking an explanation of the remaining 167 countries in terms of CO2 emissions, so it seems unfair to most of the countries that were not mentioned.

#### Findings
Regarding to our first research question, which is investigating the countries that produce the lowest/highest CO2 emissions produced by air transportation (aircraft flights), the results we got through data calculation and data visualization are: the United States, China, and the United Arab Emirates are the countries that producing the highest air transportation CO2 emissions. And the countries that produced relatively much lower emissions are Mongolia, Laos, Suriname, Paraguay, Uruguay, and many countries from Africa. 
And for the second research question, which considers the impact of a pandemic on CO2 emissions from world air transport, the answer is that CO2 emissions from aircraft are lower due to the reduction in the number of aircraft in operation during a pandemic. We found through the data that during the most severe period of the epidemic, from 2019 to 2020, the total amount of CO2 produced by air transport in the world plummeted from a very high value in 2019 to a very low value due to the drastic restrictions on the number of flights adopted by the world for the control of the epidemic in each country (which can be seen in the data on the number of passengers). 
Finally, for the third research question, which is about the relationship between the number of flights and the total CO2 emissions (generated by all objects that produce CO2), the answer is the number of flights per country determines the level of that country’s total CO2 emissions. Since more flights cause more CO2 emissions generated by airplane, plus we found that the trend in the amount of CO2 produced by aircraft between countries is very similar to the trend in total CO2 between countries, so by looking at each country's emissions from air transport, we can see the total level of emissions in that country.

#### Discussion
Based on the findings above, we can extend the discussion a lot. Starting from the third data visualization, we can learn that Covid-19 does play an important role in CO2 emission. The data visualization shows that global CO2 emissions in 2020, the year after the outbreak, are nearly double less than that of 2019. Due to the epidemic, the number of flights worldwide has been reduced, and some countries like China have even initiated a total blockade of the country, and the quarantine policies of various countries have dampened the willingness of some passengers to travel abroad by air. As the number of flights decreases, the amount of CO2 released in the air by the aircraft naturally decreases, which is the most logical explanation for our data visualization. So we can see from this data visualization that airplanes flying in the sky do have a significant impact on the global CO2 concentration. Our third data visualization compares the number of international and domestic flights in each country and the sum of CO2 emissions from air traffic and other traffic to see what proportion of the overall CO2 emissions are accounted for by air traffic. In the United States, which has the highest overall number of flights, we can see that more than twice as much CO2 is released by airplanes than by all other modes of transportation combined. Since airplanes consume a lot of fossil fuels, they release several times more carbon dioxide than other means of transportation, which is a big problem because it will aggravate global warming. Airlines should pay attention to the energy problem of airplanes and think about how to make the fuel of airplanes cleaner.  The first map data visualization is very direct to show us which countries produce high CO2 and which countries produce low CO2 concentration, according to the map we can see that the first major country of CO2 production is China, followed by the second is the United States. In fact Africa only accounts for 3.8 percent of the world's total CO2.

#### Conclusion
In conclusion, for the summary of the project results, we listed the following three key points for the audience：
First of all, the countries with the highest amount of CO2 production by air transport seem to be generally the countries with more developed economies. The countries with lower air transport production are usually those with relatively low economic levels. However, this view is not absolute, it is only a first glance trend, because some countries, such as Switzerland and Sweden, are not excluded as examples. As two of the most economically advanced countries in the world, their CO2 emissions from aircraft are only moderate and low compared to other countries, and the index is not as high as in other developed countries. Therefore, the economic level of the country cannot be used as a factor to judge the emissions, but rather, the level of emissions depends on the country's commitment to environmental management.
Second, a reduction in aircraft flights can indeed have a significant impact on the world's CO2 emission levels. This project is best illustrated in the results of the analysis of the impact of the epidemic on aircraft CO2 emissions, where a sharp reduction in the number of flights and passengers in each country during the period 2019-2020, when the epidemic is most severe, leads to a decrease in CO2 emissions from a four-year high in 2019-2022 to a four-year low. Therefore, for countries with high aircraft CO2 emissions, it is necessary to consider a modest reduction in the number of flights at the country's main airports without severely limiting and affecting the travel of its citizens in order to take action to protect the national environment.
Finally, the CO2 emission level of air transport in each country is basically representative and indicative of the total CO2 emission level of the whole country, which includes any objects that contribute to CO2 emissions, such as industrial production, land transport operations, etc. The results of the study show that CO2 emissions from air traffic are proportional to the total CO2 production, that is, a country with a high index of the former has a relatively high index of the latter. Thus, the frequent operation of aircraft as a means of transport contributes significantly to the total world CO2 emissions, and this means of transport is one of the main contributors to air pollution.

#### Acknowledgements
Regarding to this project, we would like to thank some of the people who have helped us during the research and production of this project. First of all, we would like to thank yubing, our TA, for her valuable feedback and input in our research on the project, which helped us to do a better job in the final product. And she was always prompt and patient in helping us to solve the difficulties and problems we encountered in the project. Secondly, we would like to thank a friend of Xiaoyu for recommending authoritative websites to find good datasets. Finally, we would like to thank each other for their hard work on this project.

#### References
Research Citations:
&nbsp;  

&nbsp;  

&nbsp;  


Data Files Citations:
&nbsp;  

&nbsp;  